A lot of the times your Jenkins job needs to interact with external systems.
For example, your Jenkins job need to grab some code from your GitHub repository.
Sometimes your Jenkins job needs to push a Docker container image to your Docker hub registry, etc.,
and you connect with these external systems using some sort of credentials.
In this lecture, we're going to learn how you can set up credentials in your Jenkins to connect to
different external systems.
All right.
Let's get started.
To set up credentials from your Jenkins console, click manage Jenkins, scroll down.
And then under security, you should see manage credentials, click that and then you should see this
section store's scoped to Jenkins.
This global means whatever credential you are going to store here, all the Jenkins job can use it.
You can use granular domains in case you only want the credentials to be used by certain Jenkins job.
For this demo, we are going to use the global scope, which is the most common scope.
So click this Jenkins and then click global credentials.
And then add credentials.
So for each of those systems such as GitHub, Docker, Hub and others, you need to add the user ID
and password for the systems separately.
And this ID field is an important field because this ID field is what you will use in your Jenkins file
to access these credentials.
So let's start with a very popular system, but little tricky one.
GitHub.
So for GitHub, actually, you don't use your GitHub login email and your GitHub password.
So the user ID for GitHub will actually be your GitHub username.
So I'm showing my GitHub repository page and under my name we have this Sahar Dash.
Rajdeep So that is the GitHub username.
Note that I log into GitHub using my email ID and I cannot use that email ID in Jenkins credential.
Alternatively, you can go to any of your repository and the first part of the repository, for example,
in this case, Sahar Das Rajdeep is the user ID that I need to use in my Jenkins.
So I'm just going to copy this, go back to Jenkins and the username will be the Sahar Das.
Rajdeep I'm going to go to the password in a second.
This ID is the internal GitHub ID using which you can access this credentials.
So I'm just going to name this ID as GitHub.
Now again for the GitHub password, you cannot use your regular GitHub password.
You need to generate a token to be used here.
So to do that, go back to your GitHub from the top right, click this tiny arrow, then go to settings
and then in the settings page, scroll down, click developer settings.
And then click personal access tokens.
Now click generate new token and here you can give a note.
I'm just going to put GitHub with Jenkins job and you can specify an expiration date.
By default, it is 30 days.
You can also put no explanation for this demo.
I'm just going to put seven days and then you have to select the scopes.
So basically you could say this token should be allowed to do this, this, this for the Jenkins integration
select repo and more importantly this admin colon repo underscore hook.
So this will allow the GitHub to invoke a webhook to the Jenkins.
More on that in a letter lecture and then notification that should be sufficient.
Scroll down.
Click Generate token.
So make sure you copy this token.
This will only be shown one time.
You won't be able to see it again.
So go back to the Jenkins and paste that token here.
Scroll down, click.
Okay.
So for other systems like Docker Hub, you can directly use your Docker hub login, username and password.
So I can go back to Jenkins click Add Credentials.
So here I can directly use my Docker hub user ID and password.
Remember this ID field is important, so whenever I want to push something to Docker Hub, I need to
refer to this ID.
So Jenkins will grab the credentials associated with this ID and use it to connect to Docker Hub.
So I'm just going to give the name of this ID as Docker Hub click.
Okay.
All right.
That is how you save credentials in Jenkins.
In a couple of lectures, we are going to use this user ID and password to connect to these external
systems.
All right, folks, that's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and girls in the next lecture by.